Add Hostname concept and explanation document (#4516)
kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api: site-src/concepts/hostnames.md

Quoted from RFC-2818:
> If more than one identity of a given type is present in the certificate (e.g., more than one dNSName name), a match in any one of the set is considered acceptable. Names may contain the wildcard character * which is considered to match any single domain name component or component fragment. E.g., `*.a.com` matches `foo.a.com` but not `bar.foo.a.com`. 

Because some values that are valid in certificates are not valid Gateway API `hostname`s, some matches are not possible - for example, `f*.com` is not a valid `hostname`, so cannot match `foo.com` as in RFC-2818.

Also note that RFC-2818 has the wildcard character `*` only match a _single_ DNS label, rather than multiple. So the SNI behavior is subtly different to the hostname intersection and Listener selection behavior.

Additionally, IP addresses are not valid `hostname` values for Gateway API, so they cannot match.

Examples per RFC-2818 SNI matching rules:

> | Intersected hostname | Request SNI | Match |

Reviewer: I think the newline is important for getting Markdown to render the table correctly. 🤔 

```suggestion
Examples per RFC-2818 SNI matching rules:

| Intersected hostname | Request SNI | Match |
```

### Automatic Provisioning of TLS Certificates

Automatic provisioning of TLS Certificates is a little more complex than DNS provisioning, because of the subtle difference between wildcard match definitions. This really only affects wildcard certificate generation.

The main rule for this is:

**Every intersected hostname on the Listener must be represented in a generated certificate used on that Listener.**

In the simplest cases, this means that every intersected hostname that rolls up to a Listener must be listed in the CN or SAN fields of a generated certificate that is to be attached to that Listener.

For the simple example:

* Listener `hostname`: `*.example.com`
* HTTPRoute `hostname`s, on separate HTTPRoutes: `foo.example.com`, `bar.example.com`, `baz.quux.example.com`.
* Gateway Addresses: `192.168.0.1`, `192.168.0.2`.

Any generated certificate present on the Listener MUST have the hostnames `foo.example.com`, `bar.example.com`, and `baz.quux.example.com` represented in the generated certificate, in either the CN or SAN fields.

> Similarly to the DNS provisioning case, `quux.example.com` is not represented and SHOULD NOT be included.

Reviewer: I feel like this should be stronger -- I can't think of any reason where an implement would find it _necessary_ to include the unused intermediate domain in the certificate?

```suggestion
Similarly to the DNS provisioning case, `quux.example.com` is not represented and MUST NOT be included.
```

# Hostnames in Gateway API

## Introduction/Purpose of this document

This document is intended to help both users of Gateway API and integrators who build systems that programmatically interact with Gateway API objects to better understand how Gateway API uses hostnames, and what are the most important things to know about these usages.

## Where and how can you configure a hostname?

> There are a number of places you can configure a hostname in Gateway API, each of which with a different purpose. They are used for a number of purposes, including both **hostname intersection** between Routes and Gateways, which is used to determine if the Routes can attach, and also as a **routing discriminator**, to choose which Listener and Route should accept a particular request (more on both of these later in this document).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hostnames are used to assert whether a Route can attach to a Gateway or Listener via **hostname intersection**, as well as to choose which Listener and Route should accept a particular request, determined through **routing discrimination**. Both **hostname intersection** and **routing discrimination** are defined later in this document.
```

This seemed less busy to me and more clear that we're going to be talking mostly about these two things, routing discrimination and hostname intersection. I also feel it's maybe nicer to be consistent in using the abstract noun "discrimination" as that pairs nicely with "intersection"

- `*.com` matches  `example.com`, and also `www.example.com`.

This is important in both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

### Available `hostname` fields

#### Listener (avilable in Gateway and ListenerSet)

In a Gateway or a ListenerSet, the Listener stanza includes a `hostname` field. Each Listener can have up to one `hostname`, although the `hostname`s can include wildcards. When the `hostname` field is not specified, then any hostname will match for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

ListenerSet is a relatively new resource that provides a way for users who do not own Gateways to introduce additional Listeners to a Gateway. In order to do this, it includes a Listener stanza like the Gateway object.

#### Routes (HTTPRoute, GRPCRoute, and TLSRoute)

Some Routes have a `hostnames` field. This field is treated as an `OR` for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination. `hostnames` may include wildcards.

The `hostname` field is optional, and when not supplied, any hostname will match the Route, for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

## What do the various hostnames actually do?

### Route attachment

> **Route Attachment** is the process by which Routes and Gateways agree on whether a Route may attach to a Gateway. Routes specify a ParentRef, which may be a Gateway or a ListenerSet, and Gateways and ListenerSets may specify AllowedRoutes, which can choose which Route Kinds are allowed, or what namespaces the Routes can be in.

Author: Using the YAML tags rather than the struct names makes sense, agreed. But in this case, Kind is capitalized because it is used in the Kubernetes meaning, rather than a more general one. Great suggestion though, thanks.

> Most importantly for this document, Gateway Listeners and some types of Route both include `hostname` fields, and those two fields must **intersect** correctly for the Route to be **Accepted**, and attach to the Gateway. Routes which do not attach to a Gateway ParentRef do not do anything for that Gateway. So getting this right is important!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most importantly for this document, Gateway Listeners and some types of Route both include `hostname` fields, and those two fields must **intersect** correctly for the Route to be **Accepted** and attached to the Gateway. Routes that are not attached to a Gateway have no effect on any Gateway. So getting this right is important!
```

This intersection has some rules:

* if both hostnames are **precise** (containing no wildcards) then the hostnames must match exactly. So, `foo.example.com` on the Listener, and `foo.example.com` on a HTTPRoute intersect.
* If the Listener has a wildcard hostname, and the Route has a precise hostname that matches that wildcard, then they intersect. So, `*.example.com` on the Listener and `www.example.com` or `sub.domain.example.com` on a HTTPRoute will intersect.
* If the Listener has a precise hostname, and the Route has a wildcard hostname that matches the precise hostname, then they intersect. So, `www.example.com` or `sub.domain.example.com` on the Listener, and `*.example.com` on a HTTPRoute intersect.
* If both Listener and Route have wildcard hostnames, they intersect as long as they overlap. So, `*.example.com` and `*.example.com` intersect, but so do `*.example.com` and `*.com`.
* The special wildcard `*` (with no other characters), matches any other hostname for hostname intersection purposes.
* Having no hostname set is equivalent to having a `hostname` field set to `*`.

> If the hostnames intersect following these rules, then the attachment between the Listener and Route can proceed (assuming all other requirements are also successful).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the hostnames intersect, then the attachment between the Listener and Route can proceed (assuming all other requirements are also successful).
```

> The hostname that actually intersects is referred to as the **intersected** hostname. This is important for traffic and routing discrimination.

Author: Traffic discrimination is choosing a Listener, and routing discrimination is choosing a Route attached to that Listener. They're actually two separate operations - because traffic discrimination can succeed, and routing discrimination can fail. In that case, the request must be rejected.

Some examples:

| Listener `hostname` | Route `hostname` | Intersected `hostname` |
|---------------------|------------------|--------------------|
| `www.example.com` | `www.example.com` | `www.example.com`  |
| `*.example.com` | `www.example.com` | `www.example.com` |
| `*.example.com` | `sub.domain.example.com` | `sub.domain.example.com` |
| `www.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `www.example.com` |
| `sub.domain.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `sub.domain.example.com` |
| `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` |
| `*.com` | `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` |
| `*` | `www.example.com` | `www.example.com` |
| `*` | `*` | `*` |

### Traffic and Routing discriminators

> Hostnames are also used for _traffic_ and _routing_ discrimination. To put it another way, they are used to choose where traffic will be routed, whether that is choosing a Listener out of a set of Listeners, or choosing a Route out of the set of Routes attached to a Listener.

Reviewer 2: This is a bit imprecise; both GRPCRoute and HTTPRoute can route to different services based on their configured `rules`. I'm not sure of a way to call it out, but the routing discrimination being described in this doc is basically selecting a Route, and the Route may do whatever it wants with that traffic.

* Find all Gateways that roll up to those GatewayClasses that have `Accepted` Conditions with `status: true` (this is handled by the implementation).
* Find all ListenerSets that point those Gateways that have `Accepted` Conditions with `status: true`.
  (Remember also that `hostname` fields must be unique across all Listeners attached to a Gateway,
  whether those are in the Gateway or in attached ListnerSets.
  The implementation should handle this by setting ListenerSets to `Accepted` `status: false` for duplicates.)
* Find all Routes that point to those Gateways or ListenerSets that have `Accepted` Conditions with `status: true`.
* Do the hostname intersection calculation for each Gateway-Route pair or each ListenerSet-Route pair.
* Create things (DNS records or certificates, or whatever) based on the intersected hostnames.
  Note that you should also respect the standard conflict resolution rules, basically:
  if there are two places where the same config is present, the oldest one by creation time wins.

### Automatic Provisioning of DNS records

The main rule in this case is straightforward:

> **All _intersected hostnames_ represented in all Listeners on the Gateway MUST resolve to all addresses in that Gateway's `status.addresses`**.

Author: I added another example that might help explaining this better.

> **All _intersected hostnames_ represented in all Listeners on the Gateway MUST resolve to all addresses in that Gateway's `status.addresses`**.

Reviewer 3: I think I didn't paint the scenario well enough - here's a snippet more inline with what I'm getting at:

> If desired, a controller may provide means for users to optionally override the resolution of `foo.example.com` to any arbitrary (non-Gateway) address, for example belonging to an external load balancer or reverse proxy that is not known to the Gateway. In such a case, it's up to the user to ensure that traffic sent to `foo.example.com` **in the end** reaches the Gateway Address.

> **All _intersected hostnames_ represented in all Listeners on the Gateway MUST resolve to all addresses in that Gateway's `status.addresses`**.

Reviewer 3: Here's another reference to an example of this scenario https://github.com/k8gb-io/k8gb/issues/1800

- `*.example.com` matches `www.example.com` and `sub.domain.example.com`, but not `example.com`.
- `*.com` matches  `example.com`, and also `www.example.com`.

This is important in both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

### Available `hostname` fields

#### Listener (avilable in Gateway and ListenerSet)

In a Gateway or a ListenerSet, the Listener stanza includes a `hostname` field. Each Listener can have up to one `hostname`, although the `hostname` can include a wildcard in the leftmost position.
When the `hostname` field is not specified, then any hostname will match for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.
In that case, the hostname is effectively the special value `*`.

ListenerSet is a relatively new resource that provides a way for users who do not own Gateways to introduce additional Listeners to a Gateway. In order to do this, it includes a Listener stanza like the Gateway object.

#### Routes (HTTPRoute, GRPCRoute, and TLSRoute)

Some Routes have a `hostnames` field. This field is treated as an `OR` for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination. `hostnames` may include wildcard hostnames.

> The `hostname` field is optional, and when not supplied, any hostname will match the Route, for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

Reviewer 4: The `hostnames` field is not optional for TLSRoutes from [`v1alpha3`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/pull/3872)

Quoted from RFC-2818:
> If more than one identity of a given type is present in the certificate (e.g., more than one dNSName name), a match in any one of the set is considered acceptable. Names may contain the wildcard character * which is considered to match any single domain name component or component fragment. E.g., `*.a.com` matches `foo.a.com` but not `bar.foo.a.com`. 

Because some values that are valid in certificates are not valid Gateway API `hostname`s, some matches are not possible - for example, `f*.com` is not a valid `hostname`, so cannot match `foo.com` as in RFC-2818.

Also note that RFC-2818 has the wildcard character `*` only match a _single_ DNS label, rather than multiple. So the SNI behavior is subtly different to the hostname intersection and Listener selection behavior.

Additionally, IP addresses are not valid `hostname` values for Gateway API, so they cannot match.

Examples per RFC-2818 SNI matching rules:

| Intersected hostname | Request SNI | Match |
|---|---|---|
| `www.example.com` | `www.example.com` | ✅ |
| `www.example.com` | `foo.example.com` | ❌ |
| `*.example.com` | `www.example.com` | ✅ |
| `*.example.com` | `foo.example.com` | ✅ |

> | `*.example.com` | `foo.bar.example.com` | ❌ |

Author: I've updated this with a callout. I think this is almost certainly going to break someone at some point, but the fact is, people are already doing it, so I guess we'll find out when that happens.

The level of precision in a hostname also affects its effective order in the process of choosing which Listener will match particular traffic, with more precise beating less precise hostnames.

Note that IP addresses are _never_ valid hostnames in Gateway API, although, at the time of writing, the validation for those fields may allow them. This is a bug and will be fixed in the future. Gateway API **strongly** recommends not depending on this behavior.

??? example "Hostname Type details"

	There are actually two types of Hostname available in Gateway API - `Hostname` and `PreciseHostname`. `Hostname` has the behavior described below with wildcards, but `PreciseHostname` does _not_ allow wildcards. Otherwise the two are the same.

### Hostname wildcards

In Gateway API, a wildcard is supported _only_ as the leftmost character in the hostname, and must be immediately followed by a `.` (which further means that the wildcard will only match complete DNS Labels, as defined in the DNS RFCs like [RFC-9499](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9499.html), [RFC-2308](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2308), and others).

For example:
- `*.example.com` is a valid `hostname`

> - `f*.example.com` is not a valid `hostname`, as the wildcard character `*` is not the leftmost character.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

- `*.example.com` is a valid `hostname`
- `f*.example.com` is not a valid `hostname`, as the wildcard character `*` is not the leftmost character.
```

Rendering is bad at the preview: https://deploy-preview-4516--kubernetes-sigs-gateway-api.netlify.app/concepts/hostnames/

- `*oo.example.com` is also not a valid `hostname`, as the wildcard character is not followed by a `.`.

Additionally - and unlike many other systems - the wildcard is defined as matching _one or more_ DNS Labels, rather than only one. For example:

- `*.example.com` matches `www.example.com` and `sub.domain.example.com`, but not `example.com`.
- `*.com` matches  `example.com`, and also `www.example.com`.

This is important in both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

### Available `hostname` fields

> #### Listener (avilable in Gateway and ListenerSet)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Listener (available in Gateway and ListenerSet)
```

Some Routes have a `hostnames` field. This field is treated as an `OR` for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination. `hostnames` may include wildcard hostnames.

For HTTPRoute and GRPCRoute, the `hostname` field is optional, and when not supplied, any hostname will match the Route, for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

For TLSRoute, the `hostname` field is not optional.

## What do the various hostnames actually do?

### Route attachment

**Route Attachment** is the process by which Routes and Gateways agree on whether a Route may attach to a Gateway. Routes specify a `parentRef`, which may be a Gateway or a ListenerSet, and Gateways and ListenerSets may specify `allowedRoutes`, which can choose which Route Kinds are allowed, or what namespaces the Routes can be in.

Most importantly for this document, Gateway Listeners and some types of Route both include `hostname` fields, and those two fields must **intersect** correctly for the Route to be **Accepted**, and attached to the Gateway. Routes that are not attached to a Gateway ParentRef do not do anything for that Gateway. So getting this right is important!

> This process is referred to as **hostname intersection**, and it works regardless of which Route type you are talking about.

Author: It doesn't apply for TCPRoute because there's no hostname field there.

| `www.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `www.example.com` | Wildcard hostname on Route matches precise hostname on Listener |
| `sub.domain.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `sub.domain.example.com` | Multiple label wildcard match works in the other direction as well |
| `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` | Wildcard hostname matches wildcard hostname when they exactly match |
| `*.com` | `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` | Less specific wildcard hostname intersects with more specific wildcard hostname |
| `*` | `www.example.com` | `www.example.com` | Match anything intersects with precise hostname |
| `*` | `*` | `*` | Match anything intersects with other match anything |

### Traffic and Routing discriminators

Hostnames are also used for _traffic_ and _routing_ discrimination.
To put it another way, they are used to choose where traffic will be routed,
whether that is choosing a Listener out of a set of Listeners (traffic discrimination),
or choosing a Route out of the set of Routes attached to a Listener (routing discrimination).

#### Listener ordering

> When a Gateway has a set of Listeners that contains Listeners that have the same `port` and `protocol`, but different `hostname`s, then the Gateway is expected to send traffic that _could_ match multiple Listeners to the _most specific_ Listener.

Reviewer 5: > When a Gateway has a set of Listeners that contains Listeners that have the same

This is a bit confusing

Author: Updated the wording, PTAL.

This is important when considering `hostname`, because wildcards create a hierarchy of specificity. That is, a Listener with a hostname that contains a wildcard is _less precise_ and _less specific_ than one that only contains a precise hostname.

Broadly speaking, a hostname is more specific if it has _more_ labels that do not contain a wildcard than another.

Some examples:

* `www.example.com` (3 specific labels) is more specific than `*.example.com` (2 specific labels).
* `*.example.com` (2 specific labels) is more specific than `*.com` (1 specific label).
* `*.com` (1 specific label) is more specific than `*` (0 specific labels).

When choosing a Listener to accept, the exact hostname details to match depend on the protocol, but, all follow a general pattern:

* exact matches
* most specific wildcard match to request hostname
* general wildcard match to request hostname (this includes the special case of "no hostname", which corresponds to the `*` hostname).

#### SNI matching

For `protocol` values that use TLS, the intersected hostname is expected to match multiple details:

> * The intersected hostname must be present on a certificate that is used for TLS termination, either in the CN or SAN fields, when the `tls.mode` is set to `Terminate`.

Reviewer 5: this is not actually enforced. You can serve a TLS certificate that does not match the hostname, you will get an invalid certificate/peer but it will still be served

For example:

- `*.example.com` is a valid `hostname`
- `f*.example.com` is not a valid `hostname`, as the wildcard character `*` is not the leftmost character.
- `*oo.example.com` is also not a valid `hostname`, as the wildcard character is not followed by a `.`.

Additionally - and unlike many other systems - the wildcard is defined as matching _one or more_ DNS Labels, rather than only one. For example:

- `*.example.com` matches `www.example.com` and `sub.domain.example.com`, but not `example.com`.
- `*.com` matches  `example.com`, and also `www.example.com`.

This is important in both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

### Available `hostname` fields

#### Listener (available in Gateway and ListenerSet)

In a Gateway or a ListenerSet, the Listener stanza includes a `hostname` field. Each Listener can have up to one `hostname`, although the `hostname` can include a wildcard in the leftmost position.
When the `hostname` field is not specified, then any hostname will match for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

> In that case, the hostname is effectively the special value `*`.

Reviewer 6: The Gateway API CRD validation regex for `Hostname` does not allow a bare `*`. The source code comments explicitly state that the fallback match is an empty Hostname value (`""`), not `*`. Consider updating the PR to state that an omitted hostname behaves as an empty string (`""`), which acts as the match-all fallback.

Author: I clarified that that value is not literally represented, but that we use it in the doc to represent "match anything".

ListenerSet is a relatively new resource that provides a way for users who do not own Gateways to introduce additional Listeners to a Gateway. In order to do this, it includes a Listener stanza like the Gateway object.

#### Routes (HTTPRoute, GRPCRoute, and TLSRoute)

Some Routes have a `hostnames` field. This field is treated as an `OR` for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination. `hostnames` may include wildcard hostnames.

For HTTPRoute and GRPCRoute, the `hostname` field is optional, and when not supplied, any hostname will match the Route, for both hostname intersection and routing discrimination.

For TLSRoute, the `hostname` field is not optional.

## What do the various hostnames actually do?

### Route attachment

**Route Attachment** is the process by which Routes and Gateways agree on whether a Route may attach to a Gateway. Routes specify a `parentRef`, which may be a Gateway or a ListenerSet, and Gateways and ListenerSets may specify `allowedRoutes`, which can choose which Route Kinds are allowed, or what namespaces the Routes can be in.

> Most importantly for this document, Gateway Listeners and some types of Route both include `hostname` fields, and those two fields must **intersect** correctly for the Route to be **Accepted**, and attached to the Gateway. Routes that are not attached to a Gateway ParentRef do not do anything for that Gateway. So getting this right is important!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most importantly for this document, Listeners and some types of Route both include `hostname` fields, and those two fields must **intersect** correctly for the Route to be **Accepted**, and attached to the Gateway. Routes that are not attached to a Gateway ParentRef do not do anything for that Gateway. So getting this right is important!
```

"Gateway Listeners" makes it seem like that's its own thing, i.e. GatewayListener, but I think you just meant Listeners, whether they be directly on a Gateway or a ListenerSet.

| `www.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `www.example.com` | Wildcard hostname on Route matches precise hostname on Listener |
| `sub.domain.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `sub.domain.example.com` | Multiple label wildcard match works in the other direction as well |
| `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` | Wildcard hostname matches wildcard hostname when they exactly match |
| `*.com` | `*.example.com` | `*.example.com` | Less specific wildcard hostname intersects with more specific wildcard hostname |
| `*` | `www.example.com` | `www.example.com` | Match anything intersects with precise hostname |
| `*` | `*` | `*` | Match anything intersects with other match anything |

### Traffic and Routing discriminators

Hostnames are also used for _traffic_ and _routing_ discrimination.
To put it another way, they are used to choose where traffic will be routed,
whether that is choosing a Listener out of a set of Listeners (traffic discrimination),
or choosing a Route out of the set of Routes attached to a Listener (routing discrimination).

#### Listener ordering

> When a Gateway has Listeners (from in the Gateway itself or from attached ListenerSets) that contain Listeners that have the same `port` and `protocol`, but different `hostname`s, then the Gateway is expected to send traffic that _could_ match multiple Listeners to the _most specific_ Listener.

Reviewer 5: maybe the "has Listeners that contains Listeners" phrase is the thing confusing me (tho I understood the goal after reading it twice).

Maybe:

"has Listeners (from in....) that contains entries that have the same `port`", instead of repeating Listeners twice

Author: Great suggestion, thanks! Applied.

Note that for this process, only the **intersected hostname** (the result of the hostname intersection calculation) is relevant.

This is important when considering `hostname`, because wildcards create a hierarchy of specificity. That is, a Listener with a hostname that contains a wildcard is _less precise_ and _less specific_ than one that only contains a precise hostname.

> Broadly speaking, a hostname is more specific if it has _more_ labels that do not contain a wildcard than another.

Reviewer 6: While conceptually true, `gateway_types.go` defines this precedence precisely by counting the number of dots. Consider directly aligning with the canonical definition: "The precise definition here is that the higher the number of dots in the hostname to the right of the wildcard character, the higher the precedence."

!!! note "Exception to this rule"

    An integration MAY provide means for users to optionally override the resolution of `foo.example.com` to any arbitrary (non-Gateway) address,
    for example belonging to an external load balancer or reverse proxy that is not known to the Gateway.
    In such a case, it's up to the user to ensure traffic to `foo.example.com` by some means reaches the Gateway Address in the end.
    Note that if the implementation does allow this, this DNS record will _not_ pass Gateway API conformance tests,
    as it is violating part of the Gateway API contract
    (namely, that the address listed in status.addresses is the actual IP that should be used to connect to the Gateway).
    Because of this, this behavior is Implementation Specific, and will not be portable between integrations.

Exactly how this requirement is met is up to the integration.

Some example configs, along with _example_ ways they could be handled:

* Listener `hostname`: `*.example.com`
* HTTPRoute `hostname`s, on separate HTTPRoutes: `foo.example.com`, `bar.example.com`, `baz.quux.example.com`.

> * Gateway Addresses: `192.168.0.1`, `192.168.0.2`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* HTTPRoute `hostname`s, on separate HTTPRoutes: `foo.example.com`, `bar.example.com`, `baz.quux.example.com`.
* Listener `hostname`: `*.example.com`
* Gateway Addresses: `192.168.0.1`, `192.168.0.2`.
```

This ordering feels better to me because the attachment hierarchy is Route->Listener->Gateway.

Same for the examples on 294 and 322.

In the simplest cases, this means that every intersected hostname that rolls up to a Listener must be listed in the CN or SAN fields of a generated certificate that is to be attached to that Listener.

For the simple example:

* Listener `hostname`: `*.example.com`
* HTTPRoute `hostname`s, on separate HTTPRoutes: `foo.example.com`, `bar.example.com`, `baz.quux.example.com`.
* Gateway Addresses: `192.168.0.1`, `192.168.0.2`.

Any generated certificate present on the Listener MUST have the hostnames `foo.example.com`, `bar.example.com`, and `baz.quux.example.com` represented in the generated certificate, in either the CN or SAN fields.

Similarly to the DNS provisioning case, `quux.example.com` is not represented and SHOULD NOT be included.

#### Handling Wildcard certificates

Contrary to what some summaries of standards like OWASP indicate, wildcard certificates _can_ be used in a reasonably safe way. But, programmatically generating wildcard certificates without administrator intervention is very rarely a good idea, so the position of Gateway API is this:

**Integrations MUST NOT use the `hostname` field to programmatically generate wildcard certificates**.

> To put this another way, if the intersected hostname includes a wildcard character, then TLS Certificate integrations MUST ignore it.

Reviewer 5: while I agree with this, I can think on how this can go wrong with busy environments.

Let's say you are the provider of myamazingapp.com. Your app has 4 different subdomains:
* www 
* api
* payments
* images

Your env now has to create a cert with these 4 SAN. Then you decide to change the subdomain to something else, but you do that on steps (create a new domain, remove the old one later), you now have again generated 1 new cert with 5 subdomains, then again another cert with 4 subdomains, removing the old one.

This may incur on costs for users, and on a poor UX overall (including how would you deal with these old certs, and if they are revoked, etc).

I would advocate that creating a wildcard certificate IS allowed on resources managed by a Gateway admin (aka on Gateway hostnames, but for now not on ListenerSet and for sure not on routes). Given the certificate right now is a Gateway attribute (and not a route attribute) this would avoid regenerating it for every route reconciliation.

Author: I've added a note in about _why_ we are taking this stance.
